The President:
I'm speaking to you from
just outside Portland,
Oregon where I'm visiting Intel,
a company that helped pioneer
the digital age.
I just came from a tour
of an assembly line where
highly-skilled technicians are
building microprocessors that
run everything from desktop
computers to smartphones.
But these workers aren't just
manufacturing high-tech computer chips.
They're showing us how
America will win the future.
For decades, Intel has led the world
in developing new technologies.
But even as global
competition has intensified,
this company has invested, built,
and hired right here in America.
Three-quarters of Intel's products
are made by American workers.
And as the company expands
operations in Oregon and builds
a new plant in Arizona, it plans to
hire another 4,000 people this year.
Companies like Intel are
proving that we can compete --
that instead of just being a
nation that buys what's made
overseas, we can make things in America
and sell them around the globe.
Winning this competition depends
on the ingenuity and creativity
of our private sector -- which
was on display in my visit today.
But it's also going to depend on
what we do as a nation to make
America the best place
on earth to do business.
Over the next ten years, nearly
half of all new jobs will
require education
beyond high school,
many requiring proficiency
in math and science.
And yet today we've fallen
behind in math, and in science,
and in graduation rates.
As a result, companies like
Intel struggle to hire American
workers with the skills
that fit their needs.
If we want to win the global
competition for new jobs and
industries, we've got to win the
global competition to educate
our people.
We've got to have
the best trained,
best skilled workforce
in the world.
That's how we'll ensure that the
next Intel, the next Google,
or the next Microsoft
is created in America,
and hires American workers.
This is why, over
the past two years,
my administration has made
education a top priority.
We've launched a competition
called "Race to the Top" --
a reform that's lifting
academic standards and getting
results; not because Washington
dictated the answers,
but because states and local
schools pursued innovative solutions.
We're also making college more
affordable for millions of
students, and revitalizing
our community colleges,
so that folks can get the
training they need for the
careers they want.
And as part of this effort,
we've launched a nationwide
initiative to connect graduates
that need jobs with businesses
that need their skills.
Intel understands how important
these partnerships can be --
recognizing that their company's
success depends on a pipeline of
skilled people ready to fill
high-wage, high-tech jobs.
Intel often pays for workers
to continue their education at
nearby Portland
State University.
As a result, one out of every
fifteen of Intel's Oregon
employees has a degree
from Portland State.
In fact, Intel's commitment to
education begins at an even
younger age.
The company is providing
training to help 100,000 math
and science teachers improve
their skills in the classroom.
And today, I'm also meeting a
few students from Oregon who
impressed the judges in the high
school science and engineering
competitions that Intel
sponsors across America.
One young woman, Laurie Rumker,
conducted a chemistry experiment
to investigate ways to protect
our water from pollution.
Another student,
named Yushi Wang,
applied the principles of
quantum physics to design a
faster computer chip.
We're talking about
high school students.
So these have been a tough
few years for our country.
And in tough times, it's natural
to question what the future holds.
But when you meet young
people like Laurie and Yushi,
it's hard not to be inspired.
And it's impossible not to
be confident about America.
We're poised to lead
in this new century --
and not just because of the good
work that large companies like
Intel are doing.
Across America, there are
innovators and entrepreneurs who
are trying to start
the next Intel,
or just get a small business
of their own off the ground.
I'll be meeting with some of
these men and women next week in
Cleveland, to get ideas about
what we can do to help their
companies grow and create jobs.
The truth is, we have everything
we need to compete: bold
entrepreneurs, bright new ideas, and
world-class colleges and universities.
Most of all, we have young
people just brimming with
promise and ready
to help us succeed.
All we have to do is
tap that potential.
That's the lesson on
display here at Intel.
And it's how America
will win the future.
Thanks so much.